blog: architecture driven auth part 2 (TMB) (#3949)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/blog/auth-architecture-part2-TMB.mdx

A TMB is slightly more secure than a BBOC because of the server-side refresh token — if you follow best practices.

You can set a very short expiry period for your access tokens (ten minutes), so that if an attacker does gain access to the token, they can't use it for long. The frontend can silently ask the server for a new access token generated from the server-side refresh token every ten minutes, so the user does not need to log in again, or for security-critical apps like banking, you can require the user to log in again every time their access token expires. If you detect unauthorized use of an access token, you can revoke the refresh token and force a user to log in again.

Of course, if an attacker has managed to insert malicious JavaScript into your frontend, they can steal the access tokens again and again, so access token timeouts won't protect you. However, once the user closes their browser, all fraudulent requests must pause. Mobile and desktop apps are generally safer than web apps because they are less likely to use JavaScript.

> For a list of best practices mitigating the danger of client-side token storage, read the IETF's [Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9700/), or this [summary](https://maida.kim/oauth2-best-practices-for-developers) by a FusionAuth developer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a list of best practices mitigating the danger of client-side token storage, read the [IETF's Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9700/), or this [article summarizing OAuth 2.0 Best Practices for Developers](https://maida.kim/oauth2-best-practices-for-developers).
```

More descriptive link text.

---

> publish_date: 2026-04-30

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
publish_date: 2026-05-07
```
Not your fault, but my review took longer than expected.

title: "Token-Mediating Backend: An alternative to the BFF architecture"
htmlTitle: "Part 2 of 3 on authentication architecture | FusionAuth"

> description: "Learn how a token-mediating backend (TMB) is less secure than a BFF and when to use it. Part 2 of 3 in the architecture-driven auth series."

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to expand the BFF acronym in this description, since some users might stumble upon this without reading the prerequisite part 1?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how a token-mediating backend (TMB) is less secure than backend-for-frontend (BFF) and when to use a TMB. Part 2 of 3 in the architecture-driven auth series."
```
expansion as noted above, plus swapping out an ambiguous pronoun

image: /img/blogs/bff/tmb-security-architecture-header.png

> authors: Kim Maida

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
authors: Kim Maida, Nathan Contino
```
Since I'm doing a heavier edit of this post, I figure I might as well

categories: Education, Security
tags: oauth, security, BFF, TMB, React, tokens, architecture, FusionAuth
excerpt_separator: "{/* more */}"
---

import Aside from 'src/components/Aside.astro';

This post discusses the Token-Mediating Backend (TMB) authentication architecture for OAuth 2 applications. It covers how secure TMB is, when to use it, and how to implement it.

<Aside type="tip">
This is part two of a three-part series on OAuth architectures. Please read [part one](/blog/backend-for-frontend-security-architecture) if you haven't already, so you understand how the Backend-for-Frontend (BFF) architecture works, since TMB is a variation of BFF.
</Aside>

## Understanding TMB architecture

> The TMB architecture is identical to the BFF pattern, except for one major difference: Access tokens are stored in the frontend (desktop app, mobile app, or web app) rather than the backend. (Refresh tokens are still stored on the backend.) Since the access token is available in the browser, the browser can call a resource server directly, instead of having to call the backend and get the backend to call the resource server with the token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TMB works just like Backend-For-Frontend (BFF), with one major difference: TMB stores access tokens in the frontend (desktop, mobile, or web app). Since the access token is available in the browser, the browser can call a resource server directly, instead of proxying resource server calls through the backend.
```
Suggestion: rephrase some passive->active voice, trim words where possible, remove mention of refresh tokens (redundant, after mentioning that TMB = BFF except access tokens). Use 'proxying' term to trim down the final sentence.

> TMB is described in the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) [OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Applications](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps#name-token-mediating-backend) draft.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about TMB, see the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) [OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Applications](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps#name-token-mediating-backend) draft.
```
optional nitpick: make this a more obvious CTA

### TMB security

TMB is less secure than BFF because access tokens in the browser are vulnerable to exfiltration by malicious JavaScript packages and cross-site scripting (XSS). However, it's much more secure than serverless web apps, which use the Browser-Based OAuth Client (BBOC) architecture, as they have no secure backend at all.

Both BFF and TMB are vulnerable to fraudulent requests if an attacker manages to inject malicious JavaScript into the browser (client hijacking). But BFF prevents the attacker from using the token from the attacker's computer (token exfiltration) while TMB does not.

> You can think of the security architecture spectrum like so: BFF (most secure) > TMB (less secure) > BBOC (least secure).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can think of the security architecture spectrum like so: BFF (most secure) > TMB (less secure) > BBOC (least secure).

Both BFF and TMB are vulnerable to fraudulent requests if an attacker manages to inject malicious JavaScript into the browser (client hijacking). But BFF prevents the attacker from using the token from the attacker's computer (token exfiltration) while TMB does not.
```
Consider swapping the order of these paragraphs. I think the spectrum visualization helps the reader better understand the detailed comparison on first scan.

Reviewer 2: This comment applies globally: sometimes you prefix BFF/TMB/BBOC with "a ", sometimes you don't. We should make this treatment consistent (IMO we're better off without the article, but I trust your decision on this)

Reviewer 3: agreed on dropping the article. went through and removed "a"/"an" before BFF, TMB, and BBOC everywhere in the doc for consistency. done in commit 8fc6f5d.

TMB has two of the security advantages of BFF:

- Same-site HTTP-only session cookies (as well as PKCE checks and OIDC nonces) prevent CSRF attacks.
- Refresh tokens stay on the server, hidden from attackers.

> In a TMB frontend, the access token in the browser can't be kept in an HTTP-only cookie, because JavaScript needs to access it to send it in calls to resource servers (which have different URL domains to the authorization server domain). Since the access token has to be stored in the browser's local storage or application memory, it's vulnerable to exfiltration by XSS attacks, like malicious npm packages or unsanitized HTML inputs.

Reviewer 2: three "it"s in a single paragraph is a bit much. Could we rewrite this to be less confusing?

```suggestion
In a TMB frontend, the access token can't be kept in an HTTP-only cookie, because the browser needs the token for calls to resource servers. Since the access token has to be stored in the browser's local storage or application memory, it's vulnerable to exfiltration by XSS attacks, like malicious npm packages or unsanitized HTML inputs.
```

I think this conveys the same point in a lot less words and pronouns, but feel free to tweak it if I've misconstrued.

A TMB is slightly more secure than a BBOC because of the server-side refresh token — if you follow best practices.

You can set a very short expiry period for your access tokens (ten minutes or less) to minimize the attack window. The frontend can silently ask the server for a new access token generated from the server-side refresh token every few minutes, so the user does not need to log in again. If you detect unauthorized use of an access token, you can revoke the refresh token and force a user to log in again.

> Of course, if an attacker has managed to insert malicious JavaScript into your frontend, they can steal the access tokens again and again, so access token timeouts won't protect you. However, once the user closes their browser, all fraudulent requests must pause. Mobile and desktop apps are generally safer than web apps because they are less likely to use JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Of course, if an attacker has managed to insert malicious JavaScript into your frontend, they can steal the access tokens again and again, so access token timeouts won't protect you. However, once the user closes their browser, all fraudulent requests must pause. For this reason, mobile and desktop apps are safer than web apps for TMB.
```
IMO it's not javascript that's the problem, it's the Wild West browser environment where ads and other scripts on a page can do whatever they want.

For a list of best practices mitigating the danger of client-side token storage, read the [IETF's Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9700/), or this [article summarizing OAuth 2.0 Best Practices for Developers](https://maida.kim/oauth2-best-practices-for-developers).

### TMB with DPoP

> There is one relatively new technology (2023) that makes client-side tokens a lot safer — the Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP) mechanism, available as the IETF [RFC 9449](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9449).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One relatively new technology makes client-side tokens a lot safer — Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP), available as the IETF [RFC 9449](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9449).
```
suggestion: trim some words

If an attacker steals the access token in JavaScript, they can't steal the DPoP key because it's stored using the browser's web cryptography API with [`extractable`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CryptoKey/extractable) set to `false`. This means a request to a resource server can be signed with the DPoP key in the browser, but the key can never leave the browser or be accessed by JavaScript, preventing exfiltration.

An attacker that manages to insert malicious JavaScript into your browser could make calls using both the DPoP key and access code, but if the attacker exfiltrates the access code to their own machine, it's useless without the DPoP key. So DPoP makes storing access tokens in the browser as secure as using BFF. Remember that if an attacker manages to run malicious JavaScript in the user's browser (client hijacking), the attacker can make fraudulent requests as the user in both TMB and BFF patterns.

The security ranking is: BFF = TMB with DPoP ≫ TMB > BBOC.

> DPoP is not yet supported by FusionAuth, but it has been [requested](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-issues/issues/1679). You can learn more about exactly how DPoP works in the [Evolving Auth Standards: Security Best Practices for App Developers webinar](/webinar/evolving-auth-standards-security-best-practices-for-app-developers).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before DPoP, if an attacker got their hands on your OAuth access token, they could use it to make requests just like you. With DPoP, the token alone isn't sufficient; the client must also prove their identity with a cryptographic signature.

DPoP works by binding the token to a DPoP key, then requiring both the access token and a signature in requests. DPoP-enabled APIs reject any request that isn't signed by the DPoP key.

Your browser stores the DPoP key using [a web cryptography API that prevents exfiltration](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CryptoKey/extractable). The browser can sign requests with the DPoP key, but it can't access the key itself.

An attacker that manages to insert malicious JavaScript into your browser could make calls using a token signed by the key. But the token is only useful when the attacker can sign requests with the DPoP key, which is only possible in your browser. So we end up with a risk profile equivalent to BFF:

BFF == TMB with DPoP > TMB > BBOC

FusionAuth added support for DPoP in [version `1.63.0`](/blog/announcing-fusionauth-1-63). For a great visual walkthrough of the protocol, see the [interactive DPoP site](https://dpop.info).
```
Suggestion: ditch the analogy (not a fan of comparing cryptographic signatures to real-world signatures), add reference to the FA version that added DPoP, tighten up language that keeps using 'access code' when I think we mean access token, introduce the security comparison in a more organic way, update the comparison with developer-friendly comparators

Reviewer 3: applied your rewrite. done in commit 79c80975.

If this is the case, please know that you can implement your own BFF server with a single page of JavaScript. FusionAuth demonstrates this in the Hosted Backend [example repository](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-hostedbackend/tree/main/nodeApp) (see the files `app.js` and `authentication.js`) and [accompanying tutorial](/blog/backend-for-frontend#how-to-create-a-bff-for-a-serverless-app).

Even simpler, if you use FusionAuth (which is free if you host it yourself), you can use the built-in FusionAuth [Hosted Backend](/docs/apis/hosted-backend). The tutorial mentioned above also includes an example serverless HTML file with [two small JavaScript functions](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-hostedbackend/blob/main/serverlessApp/index.html) that give you fully secure authentication by connecting to the Hosted Backend.

## Getting technical: How the TMB flow works

This section explains the TMB OAuth flow in more detail. It is based on the [official text from the IETF](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps#name-application-architecture-2).

> Below is the sequence if the browser loads the app and still has a session cookie from the previously active session.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sequence shows the browser loading the app with a session cookie from a previously active session:
```

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor U as User
    participant B as Browser
    participant F as Static file host
    participant T as TMB
    participant R as Resource server

    U->>B: Visit website
    B->>F: Request website
    F->>B: Send HTML, CSS, JS

    B->>T: Is there an active session (include session cookie)?
    T->>B: Yes, here is your access token

    U->>B: Make a purchase
    B->>R: Make a purchase (include access token)
```

> If there is no session, the user has to log in. This sequence is shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When no previous session cookie exists, the user must first log in:
```

## See TMB in action: A complete demo

To help you get started using TMB, you can use a complete FusionAuth demonstration repository. The repository includes a React frontend and a Node.js/Express backend, demonstrating the TMB pattern with FusionAuth as the authorization server. Of course, you can adapt the backend to any language or framework.

This section allows you to run a simple but functional TMB web app and server with FusionAuth to see how it works.

### Download and start FusionAuth

To follow along, you need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org), npm, and [Docker](https://docker.com) installed. While it's not explained here, you could use Deno (or Node in Docker if you know how to change your network settings) instead of Node.

1. Open a terminal and clone the repository with Git using the commands below:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/kmaida/auth-architecture.git
cd auth-architecture
cp .env.sample .env
```

2. Start the FusionAuth server with Docker:

```sh
docker compose up -d

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
1. Open a terminal and clone the repository with Git using the commands below:

   ```console
   git clone https://github.com/kmaida/auth-architecture.git
   ```

   ```console
   cd auth-architecture
   ```

   ```console
   cp .env.sample .env
   ```

1. Start the FusionAuth server with Docker:

   ```console
   docker compose up -d
   ```
````
suggestion: indent code samples within their parent steps. mark interactive shell snippets as 'console' so it's more intuitive to copy/paste them into a shell. break shell snippets into copy-pasteable one liners to take advantage of our copy snippet button.

Reviewer 3: applied. indented all code blocks within their steps, switched from `sh` to `console`, split into one-liners. done in commit 79c80975.

> This should download Docker images and start FusionAuth on `http://localhost:9011/admin`. You can log in with the default admin credentials provided in the README: `admin@example.com` and `password`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This should download Docker images and start FusionAuth on [http://localhost:9011/admin](http://localhost:9011/admin). You can log in with the default admin credentials provided in the README: `admin@example.com` and `password`.
```
Might as well link to make this easier for our users.

Reviewer 3: applied your suggestion and linked both localhost URLs. just flagging a conflict with the contributing guide: [CONTRIBUTING.md line 22](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#L22) says to remove hyperlinks to `localhost`. happy to revert if you'd prefer to follow the existing rule, or leave as-is if the contributing doc should be updated.

Now you have an authentication provider running.

### Start the backend app server

1. Run the following commands to prepare the backend settings file for editing:

```sh
cd tmb/backend
cp .env.sample .env
```

2. Open the `tmb/backend/.env` file in a text editor and change the first two lines to match the following settings:

```js
CLIENT_ID="e72dca1d-626c-4f4b-8f36-b7c8c2c0af33"
CLIENT_SECRET="TC3Kmq9yNgudIHl8BKLJXJFAhd8AmzfTwjJSqAFJJ-k"

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
1. Run the following commands to prepare the backend settings file for editing:

   ```console
   cd tmb/backend
   ```

   ```console
   cp .env.sample .env
   ```

1. Open the `tmb/backend/.env` file in a text editor and update the following values with your own Client ID and secrets, found in the FusionAuth Admin UI under <BreadCrumb>Applications -> Your App -> Action -> Edit</Breadcrumb>:

   ```dotenv
   CLIENT_ID="e72dca1d-626c-4f4b-8f36-b7c8c2c0af33"
   CLIENT_SECRET="TC3Kmq9yNgudIHl8BKLJXJFAhd8AmzfTwjJSqAFJJ-k"
   ```
````
Same as above re:snippets.

I believe we should use `dotenv` as the language for `.env` files -- javascript is probably not correct!

Let's use breadcrumb annotation here. Please add the import at the top of the file (or all hell will break loose). IMO we're better off explaining where to find these values before the snippet, instead of in an aside that lots of readers might skip.

Reviewer 3: applied your suggestion. one small deviation: changed `Admin UI` to `admin UI` per [CONTRIBUTING.md line 14](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#L14). done in commit 3311f7ca. let me know if you'd prefer to keep it capitalised.

  <Aside type="note">
    You can also find the values in the FusionAuth admin UI under **Applications -> Your App -> Action -> Edit**.

>   </Aside>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Remove this since we're moving these instructions into the step text.

3. Start the server with the following command:

```sh
npm install
npm run dev

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
1. Start the server with the following commands:

   ```console
   npm install
   ```

   ``console
   npm run dev
   ```
````
s/command/commands and indent/update the language for these snippets

Reviewer 3: applied. split into one-liners, indented, switched to `console`. done in commit 79c80975.

The backend is now running at http://localhost:4001, but does not provide a website. It is only an API.

Now you have an authentication provider and an API to call.

### Start the frontend

1. In a new terminal in the repository directory, run the following commands to prepare the frontend settings file:

```sh
cd tmb/frontend
cp .env.sample .env
```

2. Start the server with the following command:

```sh
npm install
npm run dev
```

Now you have an authentication provider, backend API, and frontend website running and can test the full system.

3. Browse to the frontend at http://localhost:5173.

![TMB website homepage when logged out](/img/blogs/auth-architecture/loggedOut.png)

4. Click the login button at the top right and log in with the test user `user@example.com` and the password `password`.

![TMB website login page](/img/blogs/auth-architecture/logIn.png)

  <Aside type="note">
    The login page is served by FusionAuth, not by the app, but both pages have matching visual styles.

>   </Aside>

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
1. In a new terminal in the repository directory, run the following commands to prepare the frontend settings file:

   ```console
   cd tmb/frontend
   ```

   ```console
   cp .env.sample .env
   ```

1. Start the server with the following commands:

   ```console
   npm install
   ```

   ```console
   npm run dev
   ```

   Now you have an authentication provider, backend API, and frontend website running and you can test the full system.

1. Browse to the frontend at [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173).

   ![TMB website homepage when logged out](/img/blogs/auth-architecture/loggedOut.png)

1. Click the login button at the top right and log in with the test user `user@example.com` and the password `password`.

   ![TMB website login page](/img/blogs/auth-architecture/logIn.png)
````
Similar comments to above, with indenting images into steps this time, and removing an aside that I think doesn't add much to the narrative.

Reviewer 3: applied. split into one-liners, indented code blocks and images into steps, switched to `console`, removed the aside. done in commit 79c80975.

**The backend project** is the most complex of the three architecture components. It handles the OAuth interaction between FusionAuth and the frontend, and provides the API that acts as a resource server. The backend is an Express.js server (`server.ts`) that handles authentication in `auth.ts` and the files in the `utils` directory. You should be able to understand the code by reading the [flow process](https://github.com/kmaida/auth-architecture/tree/main/tmb#how-tmb-authentication-works) detailed in the README file.

**The authentication flow** is hand-coded in this example to make it understandable and explicit, but in reality you should use a library like [Passport.js](https://www.passportjs.org/packages/passport-oauth2) to do most of the OAuth 2 work. Passport handles only the interaction between your backend and FusionAuth, not between your backend and your frontend. The important part of TMB that Passport leaves to you is getting session management correct (`utils/session.ts`) and separating the refresh token on the server from the access token returned to the browser.

> **The frontend project** is very simple. Its only dependency is the React.js ecosystem, and authentication is handled in `services/AuthContext.jsx`. Since the FusionAuth webpage redirect handles login, the only authentication work the frontend needs to do is check whether the user is logged in and get new access tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**The frontend project** is very simple. Its only dependency is the React.js ecosystem, and authentication is handled in `services/AuthContext.jsx`. FusionAuth provides an access token, and the frontend uses the access token to call APIs directly, without a proxy through the backend, both for same-origin and cross-origin APIs.
```
I think this adds the extra detail Kim was hoping for?

Remember that, unlike in the BFF architecture, a TMB frontend needs to forward the access token when calling a resource server. This allows the frontend to call both same-origin and cross-origin APIs directly. You can see this in [`ResourceApiPage.jsx`](https://github.com/kmaida/auth-architecture/blob/main/tmb/frontend/src/pages/ResourceApiPage.jsx). The `fetchRecipe()` function passes the token to the resource server in the header of fetch calls:
```js
fetch(`${resourceApiUrl}/api/recipe`,
  {headers: {'Authorization': `Bearer ${accessToken}`,

> ```

Reviewer 2: I was under the impression that TMB _doesn't_ need to forward or proxy the access token? Regardless, I think we can cut the first section of this, since it's now covered by the frontend bullet point above:

````suggestion
You can see the TMB API call logic in [`ResourceApiPage.jsx`](https://github.com/kmaida/auth-architecture/blob/main/tmb/frontend/src/pages/ResourceApiPage.jsx). The `fetchRecipe()` function passes the token to the resource server in the header of fetch calls:
```js
fetch(`${resourceApiUrl}/api/recipe`,
  {headers: {'Authorization': `Bearer ${accessToken}`,
```
````

Reviewer 3: cloned kmaida/auth-architecture and checked ResourceApiPage.jsx directly. TMB does forward the access token: fetchRecipe() calls getAccessToken() and sends it as Authorization: Bearer ${accessToken} directly to the resource server. so the original sentence was technically correct, but agreed it was redundant given the updated frontend bullet above. cut it and replaced with "You can see the TMB API call logic in ResourceApiPage.jsx..." per your suggestion. done in commit 2931134b.
